Write short notes on

Recurrent Neural Networks
1)A recurrent neural network (RNN) is a type of artificial neural network which uses sequential data or time series data.
2)It is commonly used for ordinal or temporal problems, such as language translation, natural language processing (nlp), speech recognition, and image captioning.
3)While traditional deep neural networks assume that inputs and outputs are independent of each other, the output of recurrent neural networks depend on the prior elements within the sequence.

Why to use RNNs?
Recurrent neural networks recognize data's sequential characteristics and use patterns to predict the next likely scenario.

Understanding RNNs
1)What’s sequential data — it is data where the order matters.
2)RNN works on the principle of saving the output of a particular layer and feeding this back to the input in order to predict the output of the layer. 
3)The nodes in different layers of the neural network are compressed to form a single layer of recurrent neural networks

Training an RNN model
To train a recurrent neural network, you use an application of back-propagation called back-propagation through time. 
The gradient values will exponentially shrink as it propagates through each time step.
Te gradient is used to make adjustments in the neural networks weights thus allowing it to learn.

MySQL

Abbreviation: SQL -SQL is a standard language for accessing and manipulating databases.

a. Introduction to SQL
SQL stands for Structured Query Language
SQL lets you access and manipulate databases
SQL became a standard of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in 1986, and of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1987

b. Why MySQL?
MySQL is a database management system.
It may be anything from a simple shopping list to a picture gallery or the vast amounts of information in a corporate network.
To add, access, and process data stored in a computer database, you need a database management system such as MySQL Server.


c. Installation
The process for installing MySQL from a ZIP Archive package is as follows:
Extract the main archive to the desired install directory. ...
Create an option file.
Choose a MySQL server type.
Initialize MySQL.
Start the MySQL server.
Secure the default user accounts.
Installation done my local machine 

d. Creating Databases, Tables & Constraints

Database: 
CREATE DATABASE databasename;
SHOW databases;
use database_name;

TABLES : 
CREATE TABLE tablename;
create table employee
(
Employeeid int;
Firstname varchar(255),
Secondname varchar(255),
Address varchar(255),
Designation varchar(255)
);

FETCH: SELECT * FROM tablename;